(uplifting energetic music)
- Jets flying through the
air really, really quick
make it really hard to
figure out a camera track,
and so we had to utilize GPS data
from the actual camera
planes in combination
with USGS topographical data
to actually plot out various points
and then rework our light rigs
to be able to actually
properly coordinate things,
as jets moving as fast as they
do actually hit curvature.
That changes lighting in
extremely subtle ways.
- The special effects department built
four bespoke high performance Batmobiles
and each version of the
vehicle was engineered
and constructed for a specific purpose,
and they were all built from scratch,
because each Batmobile was
kind of custom tailored
for a specific job.
They didn't all fit the
design spec exactly.
For example, the jumping Batmobile,
once it hit the ground
and it stood back up
on that long throw suspension,
it looked like the daddy long legs version
of the Batmobile.
At a certain point had to
take over and replace that
along with the wet ground
and the fire reflecting off the water.
- The yellow smoke was something
that we wanted to keep open
for the audience to
figure out what this is.
At the same time, I always thought of it
as sort of announcement of the creatures,
whether it's their smell
or their pollution.
When you see a big cloud wave coming,
there's something bad behind it.
That sequence was so sensitive to contrast
whether you see him or not
and so we actually had to
render those shots twice,
one past with the machines
and then one without
and we sort of in the grading
did a live mixing and the finished result.
- 50% if not more of our sets
did have a water feature of some kinds.
I'll let Craig kind of
chat to the integration
between Dan Sudek's massive rigs
and then the islands working
combining those two worlds.
- Dan's rigs gave us a
foundation that was rock steady.
Everything possible that was safe,
but safe is not what you want
so everything needed
augmentation, a layer on top,
basically the whole front layer of it.
- Well, we switched to a stereo head rig.
We had been using on the
first film a single camera,
but the cameras were lightweight enough
that we could go with stereo,
but really the key was the facial system.
We put everything into a neural network
and the beauty of that
is when you're changing
from pose to pose,
every point on the face
understands what every other point
on the face should be doing.
- They took it.